The President:
Hi, everybody.
Over the past four
and a half years,
we've been fighting our way
back from an economic crisis
and punishing recession
that cost millions of Americans
their jobs, their homes,
and the sense of security
they'd worked so hard to build.
But thanks to the grit
and determination
of the American people,
our businesses have now created
nearly 7 million new jobs
over the past 38 months.
An auto industry
that was flatlining
is once again the heartbeat
of American manufacturing -
with Americans buying more cars
than we have in five years.
Within the next few months,
we're projected to begin
producing more of our
own crude oil at home
than we buy
from other countries -
the first time that's
happened in 16 years.
Deficits that were growing
for years are now shrinking
at the fastest rate in decades.
The rise of health care
costs is slowing, too.
And a housing market
that was in tatters
is showing new signs
of real strength.
Sales are rising.
Foreclosures are declining.
Construction is expanding.
And home prices that are rising
at the fastest rate
in nearly seven years
are helping a lot of families
breathe a lot easier.
Now we need to do more.
This week, my administration
announced that we're extending
a program to help
more responsible families
modify their mortgages
so they can stay in their homes.
But to keep our housing market
and our economy growing,
Congress needs to step
up and do its part.
Members of Congress will be
coming back next week
for an important month of work.
We've got to keep
this progress going
until middle-class families
start regaining
that sense of security.
And we can't let partisan
politics get in the way.
Congress should pass a law
giving every responsible
homeowner the chance
to save about $3,000 a year
on their mortgage
by refinancing at historically
low interest rates.
Congress should put
more Americans to work
rebuilding our crumbling
roads and bridges,
like the one that collapsed
last week in Washington state.
We'd all be safer,
and the unemployment rate
would fall faster.
And Congress should fix our
broken immigration system
by passing commonsense
reform that continues
to strengthen our borders;
holds employers accountable;
provides a pathway to
earned citizenship;
and also modernizes our
legal immigration system
so that we're reuniting
families and attracting
the highly-skilled
entrepreneurs and engineers
who will help our economy grow.
So there are a lot of reasons
to feel optimistic
about where we're
headed as a country -
especially after all we've
fought through together.
We've just got to keep going.
Because we've got more
good jobs to create.
We've got more kids to educate.
We've got more doors of
opportunity to open for anyone
who's willing
to work hard enough
to walk through those doors.
And if we work together,
I'm as confident
as I've ever been
that we'll get to
where we need to be.
Thanks and have a great weekend.